---
composer: "Stafylakis Haralobos"
composition: "Brittle Fracture"
date: 2013
performers: "Matthew Bishop, conductor"
---
**Haralabos** (Harry) **Stafylakis** is a Canadian-American composer based in New York City. Stafylakis's works have been performed by the Israel Chamber Orchestra, the McGill Symphony Orchestra, ICE, Mivos Quartet, Cygnus, and the American Modern Ensemble and have been featured at numerous festivals and conferences. Awards include the Charles Ives Fellowship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, four SOCAN Foundation Awards, and support from the Canada Council for the Arts. A graduate of McGill University, Stafylakis is currently a Graduate Teaching Fellow at the CUNY Graduate Center, studying with Jason Eckardt and David Del Tredici, and serving on the music faculty at City College of New York. His doctoral research, supported by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) of Canada, examines the conception of rhythm and meter in progressive metal and the potential adaptation of studio production techniques to instrumental composition.

|||

In the field of materials science, the study of fracture mechanics makes a fundamental distinction between fractures that occur at different levels of tensile stress. In the case of brittle fracture, there is little or no apparent plastic deformation before failure occurs; in other words, cracks travel so fast that it is often impossible to tell when the material will break. **_Brittle Fracture_** attempts to depict this type of structural failure in musical terms. Inspired by modulation and temporal manipulation techniques commonly employed in pop music production, the piece is based on a simple four-note piano theme that is performed as if it were being processed through an echo unit. The piano’s resulting spectral content is selectively captured, extended, and transformed by the orchestral instruments, effectuating a long-range rhythmic, melodic, registral, articulative, and dynamic intensification. Throughout this textural crescendo, the music undergoes various types and degrees of stress that attempt to disrupt the constant musical flow. At the peak of the process the music finally buckles under its own weight, causing an abrupt rupture in the structure. A series of these fractures occurs, slicing between two contrasting musical surfaces until the inevitable and complete dissolution of their constituent materials. *Brittle Fracture* has been awarded a 2013 Sir Ernest MacMillan Award by the SOCAN Foundation and has been selected for the American Composers Orchestra's 2014 Underwood New Music Readings.