---
composer: "Broder Michael"
composition: "Musica derivata"
subtitles: ["I. On / Off", "II. Liquid Choirs", "III. Augury", "IV. Unforced Errors"]
date: 2012
performers: "Singularity saxophone quartet: Thomas Giles, Cole Belt, Scotty Phillips, and Bryan McNamara"
---
**Michael Broder** began composing at age 13, writing duets for fellow musicians and pieces for the wind bands at his middle school. Since then, his music has been performed by artists such as the Mana Saxophone Quartet, Duo Fujin, percussionist/composer Jamie Wind Whitmarsh, and the Eppes Quartet. Broder’s compositions encompass a variety of ensembles, including chamber winds and strings, concert band, and solo pieces for saxophone, trombone, guitar, piano, and percussion. He is a finalist for the Morton Gould award, a winner of Duo Fujin’s 2011 One-Day Composition Contest, and a two-time winner of the Arnold Salop Memorial Composition Prize. His studies include work with Leonard V. Ball, Clifton Callender, Adrian P. Childs, John Corina, and Ladislav Kubík. Broder is currently a doctoral candidate in Composition at Florida State University; he holds a Master’s in Composition from Florida State and a Bachelor’s in Composition from the University of Georgia.

|||

**_Musica derivata_** comprises four very different movements unified by a common creative strategy: in each, musical material is generated, in whole or in part, from an internal or existing source. *On/Off* is a tableau in which the baritone saxophone controls the other three, who rebel through combined effort. In sections, the repressed trio’s whispers mimic intervals in the opposing baritone’s melodies. *Liquid Choirs* employs a *soggetto cavato* system devised by Adrian P. Childs. The source text, from Dylan Thomas' “Ballad of the Long-legged Bait,” includes the lines "And he who taught their lips to sing / Weeps like the risen sun among / The liquid choirs of his tribes." For *Augury*, images of feathers were scattered across grid paper with lines corresponding to pitch and time. The resulting transcription is interpreted in flittering improvisations. *Unforced Errors* plays out as a series of canonic episodes, until a careless foul-up by the baritone derails the group, and they must rally to recover.