---
title: "bios"
bg: gold
color: garnet
fa-icon: info
---

**Elainie Lillios**' music reflects her fascination with listening, sound, space, time, immersion, and anecdote. Awards include a 2013–14 Fulbright grant (Greece); First Prize—Electroacoustic Piano International Competition, Special Mention—Prix Destellos, Prize Winner—Medea Electronique Competition, and First Prize—Concours Internationale de Bourges. Recognition from Concurso Internacional de Música Electroacústica de São Paulo, Concorso Internazionale Russolo, Pierre Schaeffer Competition, ICMA, and La Muse en Circuit. Elainie’s acousmatic music is available on the CD *Entre Espaces*, produced by Empreintes DIGITALes, plus Centaur, MSR Classics, Irritable Hedgehog, StudioPANaroma, La Muse en Circuit, New Adventures in Sound Art, SEAMUS, and *Leonardo Music Journal*.

Described as "a major talent and a deep thinker with a great ear" and "a distinctive voice in American music," **Lansing McLoskey** has had his music performed in sixteen countries on six continents. He has won more than two-dozen national and international awards, including the prestigious Goddard Lieberson Fellowship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, the International Joint Wind Quintet Project Competition, and most recently the 2014 Red Note Festival Composition Competition and an Aaron Copland Grant. Among his dozens of commissions are those from the FROMM Foundation, Meet the Composer, the National Endowment for the Arts, the Barlow Foundation, and Pew Charitable Trusts. Current commissions include works for ensemberlino vocale and Berlin PianoPercussion. Professor at the University of Miami, McLoskey’s music is released on Albany, Wergo Schallplatten, Capstone, Tantara, and Beauport Classics and published by Theodore Presser Co., American Composers Press, Subito Music, and Odhecaton Z Music.

Composer **Joshua William Mills** holds a Bachelor of Music degree from Houghton College, Master of Music degrees in Composition and Music Theory Pedagogy from the Peabody Conservatory, and is currently a doctoral candidate at the Florida State University in Composition. His principal teachers have included Mark Hijleh, Christopher Theofanidis, Derek Bermel, Michael Hersch, and Ladislav Kubík. His works have been performed by the Florida State University Philharmonia, the Peabody Symphony Orchestra, line upon line percussion, the University of South Florida Percussion Ensemble, the Peabody Opera Department, and the Houghton Symphonic Winds. He is also active as a music theorist, having presented papers at the Rocky Mountain Society for Music Theory, Music Theory Southeast, and the Society for Music Theory. In addition to his activities as a composer, theorist, and teacher, he is also a Greek Orthodox chanter.

**Justin Rito** is a composer, arranger, and pianist currently pursuing a D.M.A. in Composition at Michigan State University with Ricardo Lorenz. Justin has recently completed projects with the Echo Saxophone Quartet and International Low Brass Trio and is currently working on a project for the Arx Duo. In addition to his work as a composer, Justin remains an active performer and supporter of new music through a concert series he founded in Lansing, Michigan called *Unwind*, which is devoted to contemporary concert music performances in bars.

**Don Freund** is an internationally recognized composer with works ranging from solo, chamber, and orchestral music to pieces involving live performances with electronic instruments, music for dance, and large theatre works. He has been described as “ a composer thoughtful in approach and imaginative in style” (*The Washington Post*) whose music is “exciting, amusing, disturbing, beautiful, and always fascinating” (*Music and Musicians*, London). The recipient of numerous awards and commissions including two grants from the National Endowment for the Arts and a Guggenheim fellowship, he has served as guest composer at a vast array of universities and music festivals and presented master classes throughout Europe, Asia, and South America. Freund is also active as a pianist, conductor, and lecturer. A professor of Composition at Indiana University’s Jacobs School of Music since 1992, his students from 40 years of teaching continue to win an impressive array of awards and recognitions.

**Jennifer Bellor** is a versatile composer who enjoys collaborating with classical and jazz musicians, singers, dancers, librettists, and visual artists. Her works have been presented by the Washington National Opera, the American Composers Orchestra, the Cuong Vu Trio, the Eastman Saxophone Project, the Buffalo Philharmonic, the Central Connecticut State University Wind Ensemble, the University of Massachusetts Amherst Wind Ensemble, the Eastman Wind Ensemble, the Eastman New Jazz Ensemble, and many others in the United States and abroad. She received a 2013 DownBeat award for her composition *Midnight Swim* for big band. Additionally, she was commissioned by the Washington National Opera's American Opera Initiative to write a 20-minute opera, *Duffy's Cut*, that was premiered at the Kennedy Center in November 2013. Bellor received a Ph.D. in Music Composition at the Eastman School of Music, a Master of Music degree in Composition at Syracuse University, and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Music at Cornell University.

**Alex Burtzos** is an American composer and conductor living in New York City. He is a graduate of Loyola University New Orleans (B.M.) and the Manhattan School of Music (M.M., D.M.A.) and is a member of ASCAP. Burtzos has been on the faculty of the Florentine Music School in Lower Manhattan since 2011 (Theory, Piano and Percussion) and is the recipient of MSM’ s prestigious teaching fellowship. His compositions have been performed across the United States and abroad. Recent commissioners include the Aspen Music Festival, Tempus Continuum Ensemble, Marcel, and Diaspora Duo.

**Jean-Patrick Besingrand** obtained a Master’s in Musicology from the University of Bordeaux in 2011 and acquired with excellence his diplomas in Analysis, Harmony, Counterpoint, and Fugue from the Bordeaux Conservatory. He also earned certification as a professor. Currently, Besingrand continues his studies at the Bordeaux Conservatory in Composition and in Soundpainting (live composition). He is also working on his doctoral thesis in Musicology at Paris-Sorbonne University. His music is played in the United States, France, and China. His last piece for solo viola was selected for the final of the First International Composition Competition Viola’s 2014, held April 5th. His piece *Meandering in Kotoku-In* for clarinet and guitar was played in New York on April 13th. Jean-Patrick teaches at the University of Bordeaux. This year he will be enrolled at Carnegie Mellon University in the Advanced Certificate in Composition program.

**Stephanie Pieczynski** graduated from Northern Illinois University with a Bachelor's degree in Music Composition. She studied composition under Ted Hatmaker, Robert Fleisher, and David Maki, as well as oboe under Carl Sonik and Ricardo Castaneda. She received her M.A. in Composition at the University of Iowa, studying with Lawrence Fritts and David Gompper. She was Treasurer of the University of Iowa SCI Student Chapter during the 2011–12 school year. Pieczynski is currently pursuing a D.M.A in Composition at the Florida State University, studying with Mark Wingate, Ladislav Kubík, and Clifton Callender. She was Vice President of the Student Chapter of SCI at FSU and is now President of the Chapter. She has been commissioned by many colleagues to compose pieces for recitals and benefit concerts. She has had pieces performed by the Eppes Quartet, the Chicago Miniaturist Ensemble, the 2008 Fusion Arts Exchange Ensemble, and the NIU Wind Ensemble.

The music of **Matthew Schreibeis** has been performed at the Juilliard School, the University of Chicago, Berlin's Universität der Künste, the June in Buffalo Festival, the Hindemith Foundation in Switzerland, and the National Gugak Center in Seoul by the New York New Music Ensemble, ensemble green, and members of eighth blackbird and Alarm Will Sound, among others. Honors include commissions by the Hanson Institute for American Music, the Seoul Foundation for Arts and Culture, and the University of Nevada; grants from the American Composers Forum and the University of Pennsylvania; residencies at Yaddo, the Virginia Center for Creative Arts, and the Kimmel Harding Nelson Center; First Prize in the NACUSA Young Composers Competition; and a full fellowship to the 2013 Aspen Music Festival. A graduate of the Eastman School of Music and the University of Pennsylvania, currently he is Visiting Assistant Professor at Saint Joseph's University.

**Szu-Yu Sarah Chen** is a native of Taiwan, where she received her pre-college and collegiate musical training. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Music Composition and Music Education from the National Taiwan Normal University, where she studied composition with Shing-Kwei Tzeng. At Cleveland State University, she earned her Master of Music degrees in both Piano Performance and Composition while studying piano under Angelin Chang and studying composition under Andrew Rindfleisch and Greg D’Alessio. She is currently a doctoral candidate in Music Composition at Florida State University where she studies composition with Ladislav Kubík. She teaches courses in Aural Skills, Music Theory, and Counterpoint at FSU.

The music of **Christopher Dietz** has been recognized by honors and awards from Copland House, Canada’s Banff Centre and National Arts Centre, the Camargo Foundation, ASCAP’s Morton Gould Young Composer Awards, the Minnesota Orchestra Reading Sessions and Composer Institute, the League of Composers/ISCM Orchestral Competition, the Yvar Mikhashoff Trust for New Music, the Riverside Symphony Composer Reading Project (NYC), North/South Consonance (NYC), the Chicago Ensemble’s Discover America competition, the Utah Arts Festival’s Orchestral Commission Prize, and the NewMusic@ECU festival, as well as by numerous academic scholarships and fellowships. Dietz holds a Ph.D. in Composition and Theory from the University of Michigan, along with degrees from the Manhattan School of Music and the University of Wisconsin. He has been on faculty at the Oberlin Conservatory and is currently an assistant professor of Composition at Bowling Green State University in Ohio.

**Michael Broder** began composing at age 13, writing duets for fellow musicians and pieces for the wind bands at his middle school. Since then, his music has been performed by artists such as the Mana Saxophone Quartet, Duo Fujin, percussionist/composer Jamie Wind Whitmarsh, and the Eppes Quartet. Broder’s compositions encompass a variety of ensembles, including chamber winds and strings, concert band, and solo pieces for saxophone, trombone, guitar, piano, and percussion. He is a finalist for the Morton Gould award, a winner of Duo Fujin’s 2011 One-Day Composition Contest, and a two-time winner of the Arnold Salop Memorial Composition Prize. His studies include work with Leonard V. Ball, Clifton Callender, Adrian P. Childs, John Corina, and Ladislav Kubík. Broder is currently a doctoral candidate in Composition at Florida State University; he holds a Master’s in Composition from Florida State and a Bachelor’s in Composition from the University of Georgia.

**Natalie Williams** is an American permanent resident, a composer, and an academic; currently a Visiting Assistant Professor in Music Theory and Composition at the Hugh Hodgson School of Music at the University of Georgia. Her works have been commissioned and performed by international ensembles, including the Omaha Symphony, the Atlanta Opera, the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, the Adelaide Symphony Orchestra, the Plathner’s Eleven Chamber Ensemble (Germany), the Australian Youth Orchestra, the Sydney Youth Orchestra, the Indiana University Chamber Orchestra, the Australian Chamber Orchestra, the Song Company, the Zephyr String Quartet, the Adelaide Youth Orchestra, the Cameo Trio, the Melbourne University Orchestra, the Elder Conservatorium Symphony Orchestra, the Fiorini Trio (UK), and the Brenton Langbein String Quartet.

Composer **Matthew Browne** has recently received honors such as an ASCAP Morton Gould Young Composers award (2014), winner of the New England Philharmonic Call for Scores (2014), and a residency at the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra’s First Annual Composers Institute (2013). He is currently pursuing a D.M.A. from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Previous teachers include Michael Daugherty and Kristin Kuster.

Composer and pianist **Jonathan Howard Katz** is gaining increasing recognition for the unique immediacy and expressive depth of his music, which speaks to audiences and performers alike. Harnessing this intuitive grasp of communication combined with a rigorous technical command, he is building a diverse, yet highly individual, body of work that continues to grow. Katz's music has been performed by the Cygnus Ensemble, Ensemble Pi, pianist Daria Rabotkina, violinist Ari Streisfeld, and many others. He has been commissioned by Concert Artists Guild and awarded the Robert Helps Prize and a Javits Fellowship. Through his non-profit Periapsis Music and Dance, he has worked with numerous dance companies and recently premiered a new work for dance at Symphony Space. Katz holds degrees in Piano Performance from Indiana University, NEC, and Northwestern. He studied composition with Jason Eckardt and Tania León, and piano with Ursula Oppens, Gabriel Chodos, and Edward Auer.

**Chris Arrell** writes for throats, fingers, and oscillators. Praised for its nuance and unconventional beauty by *The Boston Music Intelligencer* and *The Atlanta Journal Constitution*, his music blurs boundaries between high and low art, color and harmony, line and pulse. In 2014, Arrell received the Ettelson Award for his work *Of Three Minds*, written for Tony Arnold and Jacob Greenberg of ICE. Additional awards are the Ossia Prize, the League of Composers/ISCM, the Martirano, MacDowell and ACA residencies, and a Fulbright-Hays. Commissions include Boston Musica Viva, MATA, Spivey Hall, Cornell, and the Fromm Foundation. Recent projects include *Oh, Popeye!* for the Bent Frequency Duo, who will complete a twelve-concert tour at Tage aktueller Musik (Nuremberg, Germany) and a portrait CD. Upcoming projects include a portrait concert at the Alte Schmiede in Vienna. Arrell's music is available from Beauport, Electroshock Records, Parma Recordings, and Trevco Music.

**Paul Richards** is Research Foundation Professor and Head of Composition at the University of Florida. His works have been heard throughout the United States and internationally on six continents. Awards include Special Distinction in the ASCAP Rudolph Nissim Prize, the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra’s Fresh Ink composition prize, the New Music for Sligo/IMRO composition prize, and many others. Commissions have come from orchestras, wind ensembles, choirs, and chamber ensembles, and his works have been recorded by Richard Stoltzman, the Slovak Radio Orchestra, the Moravian Philharmonic, and numerous chamber groups. Music by Paul Richards is recorded on the Meyer Media, MMC, ERM, Capstone, Mark, and Summit labels and is published by Carl Fischer Music, TrevCo Music, the International Horn Society Press, Jeanné, Inc., and Margalit Music.

**Cody Kauhl** is an acoustic/electronic composer that investigates the hidden musical potential of urban and rural noise pollution. His work has been performed at international and national festivals and conferences including the Center of Cypriot Composers and the Society for Electro Acoustic Music in the United States. Kauhl graduated in 2011 with a B.M. in Music Theory and Composition from Southern Illinois University Edwardsville and recently completed his M.M. thesis in Music Composition at the University of Missouri-Kansas City. He regularly collaborates with choreographers and visual artists and has had his compositions performed at the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Electronic Music Midwest, Electroacoustic Barn Dance, Great Plains Regional Tuba and Euphonium Conference, 60×60, Kansas City Electronic Music and Arts Alliance, Kansas City Fringe Festival, Paragraph Gallery, and PLUG Projects.

**Theodore** (Ted) **King-Smith**'s music is a hybrid of vernacular and contemporary music, exploring the vast sonic space between an energetic drive and a surreal stillness. Hailing from the Hudson Valley of New York, where as a saxophonist he performed in a variety of ensembles ranging from improvisatory rock bands to jazz ensembles, King-Smith has degrees from the Hartt School of Music and Washington State University and is currently pursuing his D.M.A. in Composition at the University of Missouri-Kansas City. Awards for his music include the 2012 Washington Idaho Symphony Young Artist Competition and the 2011 Sinfonian Saxes Composition Competition, as well as selected performances at the College Music Society Conferences in Vancouver, British Columbia and Knoxville, Tennessee. Notable performers and ensembles include the Saxophilia Saxophone Quartet, the Washington State University Wind Ensemble, the University of Tennessee Symphony Band, and others.

**Piotr Szewczyk** is a violinist in the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra and Composer in Residence at the Florida Chamber Music Project. He holds the degrees of B.M. and double M.M. in Violin and Composition from the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music and is finishing his doctorate at Florida State University in December 2014. He has received many awards including those from Rapido! Composition Contest, the American Modern Ensemble, the Third Millennium Ensemble, American Composers Forum, JSO Fresh Ink, and many others. His music has been performed by numerous ensembles and was featured on NPR’s *Performance Today* and the CBS Early Show. His piece *Apparitions* was recently released on Navona records’ NOVA CD and was called “magical” in a review in *Gramophone* Magazine. As a violinist Szewczyk is the creator and performer of the *Violin Futura Project*, a series of recitals of solo violin pieces written for him by renowned composers from around the word.

**Ursula Kwong-Brown** attended the Royal College of Music in London and Columbia University in New York where she received the Sudler Arts Prize and graduated with honors with a B.A. in Music and Biology. Her main composition teachers have been Tristan Murail, Justin Dello Joio, Edmund Campion, and Ken Ueno, and she has attended master classes with Kaija Saariaho, Brian Ferneyhough, Augusta Read Thomas, Bernard Rands, Yehudi Wyner, Nils Vigeland, David Ludwig, Eric Ewazen, Raphael Cendo and Luca Francesconi. She is currently pursuing doctoral studies in Composition at Berkeley (University of California) with support from a Mellon-Berkeley Fellowship.

**Haralabos** (Harry) **Stafylakis** is a Canadian-American composer based in New York City. Stafylakis's works have been performed by the Israel Chamber Orchestra, the McGill Symphony Orchestra, ICE, Mivos Quartet, Cygnus, and the American Modern Ensemble and have been featured at numerous festivals and conferences. Awards include the Charles Ives Fellowship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, four SOCAN Foundation Awards, and support from the Canada Council for the Arts. A graduate of McGill University, Stafylakis is currently a Graduate Teaching Fellow at the CUNY Graduate Center, studying with Jason Eckardt and David Del Tredici, and serving on the music faculty at City College of New York. His doctoral research, supported by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) of Canada, examines the conception of rhythm and meter in progressive metal and the potential adaptation of studio production techniques to instrumental composition.

Composer-conductor **Anthony Iannaccone** studied at the Manhattan School of Music and the Eastman School of Music. His principal teachers were Vittorio Giannini, Aaron Copland, and David Diamond. During the 1960s he supported himself as part-time teacher (Manhattan School) and orchestral violinist, and he taught at Eastern Michigan University for 42 years. Many of his more than 50 published works have received awards and are performed by major orchestras and chamber ensembles in the U.S. and abroad. An active conductor of new music and standard orchestral repertory, his *WAITING FOR SUNRISE ON THE SOUND* received a Second Prize in the London Symphony Orchestra Masterprize competition from a field of 1151 works. Describing his music, the New Grove Dictionary states, “organic growth inspires music of great strength and formal clarity, as opening bars generate the textural and thematic contours that forge contrasting sections of reflection and cross-rhythmic dynamism."

**James M. David** is Associate Professor of Composition and Music Theory at Colorado State University. Among the distinctions David has earned as a composer are an ASCAP Morton Gould Award, national first-place winner in the MTNA Young Artists Composition Competition, winner of the Dallas Wind Symphony International Fanfare Competition, and national first-place winner in the NACUSA Young Composers Competition. Commissions include projects for Joseph Alessi (New York Philharmonic), John Bruce Yeh (Chicago Symphony Orchestra), the Oasis Quartet, the International Saxophone Symposium and Competition, and the Atlantic Coast Conference Band Directors Association. His works have been performed at more than forty conferences and festivals throughout North America, Europe, and Asia. Dr. David graduated with honors from the University of Georgia and completed his doctorate in Composition at Florida State University.

**Chiayu Hsu** was born in Banqiao, Taiwan. She was the winner of 2013 IAWM Search for New Music, a Copland House Award, Lynn University’s International Call for Scores, the 2010 Sorel Organization Recording Grant, music+culture 2009 International Competition for Composers, the Sorel Organization’s 2nd International Composition Competition, the 7th USA International Harp Composition Competition, ASCAP Morton Gould Young Composer Awards, the Maxfield Parrish Composition Contest, and the Renée B. Fisher Foundation Composer Awards, among others. Her work has been performed by the London Sinfonietta, the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, the San Francisco Symphony, the Nashville Symphony, the Toledo Symphony, the American Composers Orchestra, the Cabrillo Festival Orchestra, the Flagstaff Symphony Orchestra, the Lynn Philharmonia Orchestra, the Aspen Music Festival Contemporary Ensemble, eighth blackbird, the Ciompi Quartet, and the PRISM Quartet.

**Roger Zare** has been praised for his “enviable grasp of orchestration” (*New York Times*) and for writing music with “formal clarity and an alluringly mercurial surface.” Often inspired by science and mathematics, Zare was born in Sarasota, Florida, and his works have been performed across the United States and abroad by such ensembles as the American Composers Orchestra, the Minnesota Orchestra, Boston Musica Viva, and the Minas Gerais Philharmonic Orchestra. An award-winning composer, Zare has received the ASCAP Nissim Prize, three BMI Student Composer Awards, an ASCAP Morton Gould award, the 2008 American Composers Orchestra Underwood Commission, a 2010 Charles Ives Scholarship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and many other local and regional honors. He currently serves as Composer in Residence of the SONAR new music ensemble. Zare holds degrees from the University of Michigan (D.M.A. 2012), Peabody Conservatory (M.M. 2009), and the University of Southern California (B.M. 2007).

**Anthony** (A.J.) **Stillabower** is a recent graduate of Florida State University, where he was under the direction of Ladislav Kubik. He has been the recipient of multiple gracious awards from the Tallahassee Symphony Guild, is a 2014 ASCAP finalist, and has been invited to study at the exclusive Czech-American Summer Music Institute (CASMI). These recognitions have led to a recent commission from the Mana Saxophone Quartet, scheduled to be performed in late 2014. Stillabower will be attending the Juilliard School in the fall, under a C. & H. Lewine Scholarship to study with Professor Christopher Rouse.